---
layout: post
categories: divorce, motherhood
---

Today I read a headline in The Guardian that quoted an actress saying "Divorce is cruel. But some parts are to be recommended". It struck a chord because that closely resembles something I have often said, and it is evidently so shocking as to merit a headline. My own formulation is "Don't get me wrong, it's not like I recommend divorce, but it has some advantages". 

I've often said this in connection to children, for two reasons. First, The Summer, a huge problem for working parents, ceases to be a problem; you only need to worry about your kids for half of it, and that really makes  it so much more manageable. And you get to have a real holiday with them during the time they are with you. Second, The Rest of the Year, in which, if you have shared custody, you again only need to take care of your kids half the time. [I must say that a bit later I grew a bit unsure about whether the second is really an advantage, as it's also very schizophrenic: one week you are a single parent, the other a single person -- with very different schedules and to-dos. Unfortunately, I didn't get to have enough experience with this perhaps-advantage to make up my mind, as my children's dad moved to a different country and so we stopped having shared custody. So the jury is still out.] 

Regardless of which specifically are the advantages of divorce, however, it's clearly totally taboo to talk about them. Frankly, I get mega-angry at people's reaction to statements like "some parts are to be recommended" or "it has some advantages". In particular, I've found that people feel very uncomfortable about me saying that I am happy to share the work of raising kids. That I don't necessarily want to have them all the time. I've found that, as a divorced mom, I'm instead supposed to suffer. I'm supposed to be punished for my failure to make my marriage work by being deprived of my children. I'm supposed to feel empty and desperate when I do not have them under my wing. And of course my kids are supposed to struggle (see? she divorced, and look, her kids are in total disarray). And so I'm not allowed to say that divorce has advantages. Of course I know that, and so I heavily hedge such scandalous statements, as does the actress. And we do so in strikingly similar ways! "Divorce is cruel. But..." and "it's not like I recommend divorce, but..." and "_some_ parts", and "_some_ advantages". But it's still not enough. It's still headline-worthy to say something as obvious as the fact that some parts of divorce are to be recommended (seriously, if it were all bad, would people do it?), even in a progressive newspaper such as The Guardian. Too bad. 

